# Volatility Dynamics Under the Heston Model

This project was completed in November 2018 for the course *STA 2503: Applied Probability for Mathematical Finance* during my master's degree at the University of Toronto. It was a group project and my team members were Austin Grier, Hersh Stark and Kevin Zhu (github sevenelevenkevin). In this work we explored the Heston Model, a stochastic volatility model that can be used to explain the dynamic volatility skew observed in financial markets. We explored the effect of the Heston Model parameters in determining the nature of the skew, and explored various numerical discretization methods to simulate the paths of the volatility and asset price processes under the Heston Model. We use the simulated processes to obtain Monte Carlo Estimates of European options on assets with prices determined by the Heston Model and invert the Black-Scholes formula to obtain estimates of the implied volatility skew. We also used the framework to price variance swaps analytically and numerically, which we use as control variates to obtain a variance reduction for the estimated implied volatility skew. 

The file *HestonDiscretization.py* contains functions that employ the Euler, Milstein, mixing discretization schemes to discretize the Heston model. The *IVSolver* file contains a function to numerically solve for the implied volatility. The files *IVEstimation.py* and *IVEstimation_cv* then employ the aformentioned modules to plot the implied volality smirks for each discretization scheme, without and with control variates, respectively. *HestonAnalyticalMean.py* plots asset price paths following the Heston model with respect to time using the discretization schemes and using the expected value of the volatility (which does have a closed form, as can be seen in the report). Lastly, *VarianceClaims.py* uses the discretization schemes to approximate the price of first and second order variance swaps. The full report with detailed explanations of these methods and our results are in the file *ImpliedVol-Report.pdf*.
